<p class="date">27 September 2018 | <a href="<!-- PERMALINK -->" title="<!-- PERMALINKTITLE -->">permalink</a> | Category: <a href="/blog/posts/categories.php?category=general">General</a></p>

## Why this blog? {.blog_post_heading .anchor #why_this_blog}

You might be wondering why I made this blog. Simply because I like to write up
my thoughts on various things, really. It may also become handy in the future,
once I make it to Yellowstone or any other place. Then I have a nice place to
write up my observations, ramblings and whatnot.

### Reasoning... {.blog_post_heading}

With the usefulness of this blog out of the way, why did I bother creating it?
There are loads of other blog scripts around. You'd say I could easily utilise
that software instead, rather than 'fighting' with my current setup. Well then...
I sometimes like to challenge myself. And I did that with this. I always wanted
to write down observations of things I've seen on the Old Faithful streaming
webcam, especially after what happened on [Geyser Hill on the 15th of September](/blog/posts/individual.php?year=2018&post=09-01_september_surprises "Post: September in Review (so far)").

### ...searching... {.blog_post_heading}

And thus, in a burst of creativity, I looked for how to code a blog in PHP. I then
clicked on some links and found out it was actually possible to write text in
Markdown and then have PHP convert it to HTML. And thus my search continued, this
time for a PHP parser which converts Markdown to HTML. I then ended up at
[Parsedown](http://parsedown.org "Parsedown website") (_not sponsored_). After
looking at its documentation, I downloaded their standard script, only to soon
after discover I may as well get its extension to do some more technical stuff.

### ...creating {.blog_post_heading}

So, with that being set up, it was now time to get things going. Created all things
necessary and it was time for a test run.

I'm glad I didn't decide to immediately publish the changes publicly, as, well,
there were a few errors. Two I was able to fix in an instand - the other one
required some more research. Found out the main Parsedown script was outdated.
So I got its most recent version and it worked. Trust me, this doesn't happen
often. And then it was time to actually create the first blog post I've ever written.

### The future {.blog_post_heading}

It's obviously not going to take long before the current setup needs some more
work. As it currently stands, the page will get long at a reasonable pace. This
is obviously not what I want. I'd like to limit the amount of posts to around
ten at a time, which sounds reasonable to me. I then also need to create something
with _actual_ permalinks, rather than links to a heading on this page.

As for frequency, I don't expect to write up posts daily. Maybe at least once a
week is reasonable for now.